{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-BoldItalic;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Round 2 - \'93Growing Your Outpost\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 It is the second trading round, and your final opportunity to reach the threshold goal of a net PnL of 200,000 XIRECs or more before the leaderboard resets for Phase 2. These first 2 rounds act as qualifiers for the final mission. Trading activity has accelerated significantly since your arrival. With you and the other outposts actively trading 
\f2\i\b Ash-Coated Osmium
\f1\i0\b0  and 
\f2\i\b Intarian Pepper Root
\f1\i0\b0 , the market has become increasingly competitive and dynamic.\
In this second and final trading round on Intara, you will continue trading 
\f3\fs26 ASH_COATED_OSMIUM
\f1\fs24  and 
\f3\fs26 INTARIAN_PEPPER_ROOT
\f1\fs24 . This time, however, you have the opportunity to gain access to additional market volume. To compete for this increased capacity, you must incorporate a 
\f2\i\b Market Access Fee
\f1\i0\b0  bid into your Python program.\
Of course, you should also analyze your previous round\'92s performance and refine your algorithm accordingly.\
Additionally, XIREN has provided a 
\f2\i\b 50
\f0\i0 ,
\f2\i 000 XIRECs investment budget
\f1\i0\b0  for you to allocate across three growth pillars in order to accelerate the development of your outpost. You must decide how to distribute this budget strategically to maximize your profit once the trading round closes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Round Objective\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Optimize your Python program to trade 
\f3\fs26 ASH_COATED_OSMIUM
\f1\fs24  and 
\f3\fs26 INTARIAN_PEPPER_ROOT
\f1\fs24 , and incorporate a 
\f2\i\b Market Access Fee
\f1\i0\b0  to potentially gain access to additional market volume.\
In addition to refining your trading algorithm, 
\f2\i\b allocate your 50,000 XIRECs investment budget
\f1\i0\b0  across the three growth pillars to strengthen your outpost\'92s performance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Algorithmic trading challenge: \'93limited Market Access\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "attachment:9fa4493f-7e00-4205-a07f-e23f48b34571:Wiki_ROUND_2_data.zip"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Wiki_ROUND_2_data.zip}}
\f1\b0\fs24 \
The products 
\f3\fs26 INTARIAN_PEPPER_ROOT
\f1\fs24  and 
\f3\fs26 ASH_COATED_OSMIUM
\f1\fs24  are the same, but the challenge now primarily lies in deciding how much to bid for extra market access, as well as refining your algorithm. The position limits ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://imc-prosperity.notion.site/writing-an-algorithm-in-python#328e8453a09380cfb53edaa112e960a9"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 see the Position Limits page for extra context and troubleshooting}}) are again\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\fs26 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 ASH_COATED_OSMIUM
\f1\fs24 : 80\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 INTARIAN_PEPPER_ROOT
\f1\fs24 : 80\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In this round, you can bid for 25% more quotes in the order book. The volumes and prices of these quotes fit perfectly in the distribution of the already available quotes. A simple example:\
<aside> \uc0\u55357 \u56534 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Example Extra Market Access
\f1\b0 \
Order book for participants with no extra market access: (ask, 10 volume, $9) (ask, 10 volume, $7) (bid, 10 volume, $5) (bid, 5 volume, $4)\
Order book for participants with 
\f4\i extra
\f1\i0  market access: (ask, 10 volume, $9) (ask, 5 volume, $8) <--- extra flow to trade against (ask, 10 volume, $7) (bid, 10 volume, $5) (bid, 5 volume, $4)\
</aside>\
You bid for extra market access by incorporating a 
\f3\fs26 bid()
\f1\fs24  function inside your 
\f3\fs26 class Trader
\f1\fs24  implementation:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs26 \cf0 class Trader:\
    def bid(self):\
        return 15\
\
    def run(self, state: TradingState):\
        (Implementation)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 The Market Access Fee (MAF) is a 
\f4\i one-time fee
\f1\i0  at the start of Round 2 paid 
\f4\i only
\f1\i0  if your bid is accepted. It only determines who gets extra market access, and is not used in the simulation dynamics whatsoever. The top 50% of bids across all participants are accepted.\
<aside> \uc0\u55357 \u56616 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Example Bidding Mechanism
\f1\b0 \
Bids: [10, 20, 15, 19, 21, 34] Accepted: [No, Yes, No, No, Yes, Yes] Explanation: the median of the bids is 19.5, so all bids higher (20, 21, 34) are accepted \uc0\u8594  these participants get extra market access flow while paying the price they bid, and all bids below 19.5 are rejected (and these participants do 
\f4\i not
\f1\i0  pay the fee).\
</aside>\
The accepted bids are subtracted from Round 2 profits to compute the final PnL. To be explicit,\
<aside> \uc0\u8505 \u65039 \
For those with full market access (i.e. those in the top 50% of bids), 
\f3\fs26 profit = profit from round 2 - bid for getting full market access
\f1\fs24 .\
For those with no full market access, 
\f3\fs26 profit = profit from round 2
\f1\fs24 .\
</aside>\
The MAF is unique to Round 2, and does not apply to any other round; any 
\f3\fs26 bid()
\f1\fs24  function in Rounds 1,3,4,5 is ignored. It is also ignored during testing of round 2, since bids are only compared on our end when the final simulation of Round 2 starts. In that sense, it\'92s a \'93blind auction\'94 for extra flow.\
During testing of round 2, the default set of quotes you interact with is 80% of all quotes we generated (i.e., no extra market access). This 80% has been slightly randomized for every submission to reflect real-world conditions where not all patterns in trading behavior are up 100% of the time. While you could optimize the PnL by submitting the same file many times, this has very limited payoff and your effort is much better put into improving your algorithm ;).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Game theory\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 To get extra market access, you just need to be in the top 50% of bidders, not necessarily the highest bidder. Placing an extremely high bid will almost certainly yield full market access, but perhaps you could save (a lot of) XIRECs by bidding less while staying in the top 50% of bidders.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Manual trading challenge: \'93Invest & Expand\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 You are expanding your outpost into a true market making firm with a budget of 
\f3\fs26 50 000
\f1\fs24  XIRECs. You need to allocate this budget across three pillars:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Research
\f1\b0 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Scale
\f1\b0 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Speed
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 You choose percentages for each pillar between 0\'96100%. Total allocation cannot exceed 100%. Your final PnL (Profit and Loss) score is:\
<aside> \uc0\u8505 \u65039 \
PnL = (Research \'d7 Scale \'d7 Speed) \uc0\u8722  Budget_Used\
</aside>\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 The pillars\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Research
\f1\b0  determines how strong your trading edge is. It grows 
\f0\b logarithmically
\f1\b0  from 
\f3\fs26 0
\f1\fs24  (for 
\f3\fs26 0
\f1\fs24  invested) to 
\f3\fs26 200 000
\f1\fs24  (for 
\f3\fs26 100
\f1\fs24  invested). The exact formula is 
\f3\fs26 research(x) = 200_000 * np.log(1 + x) / np.log(1 + 100)
\f1\fs24 . Here, 
\f3\fs26 np.log
\f1\fs24  is a python function from NumPy package for natural logarithm.\

\f0\b Scale
\f1\b0  determines how broadly you deploy your strategy across markets. It grows 
\f0\b linearly
\f1\b0  from 
\f3\fs26 0
\f1\fs24  (for 
\f3\fs26 0
\f1\fs24  invested) to 
\f3\fs26 7
\f1\fs24  (for 
\f3\fs26 100
\f1\fs24  invested).\

\f0\b Speed
\f1\b0  determines how often you win the trades you target. It is 
\f0\b rank-based
\f1\b0  across all players:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Highest speed investment receives a 
\f3\fs26 0.9
\f1\fs24  multiplier.\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Lowest receives 
\f3\fs26 0.1
\f1\fs24 .\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Everyone in between is scaled linearly by rank, equal investments share the same rank.\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 For example, if people invested 
\f3\fs26 70, 70, 70, 50, 40, 40, 30
\f1\fs24 , they get the following ranks: 
\f3\fs26 1, 1, 1, 4, 5, 5, 7
\f1\fs24 . First three players get 
\f3\fs26 0.9
\f1\fs24  for hit rate multiplier, last player gets 
\f3\fs26 0.1
\f1\fs24 , and everybody in between gets linearly scaled between top and bottom rank. Another example, if you have three players investing 
\f3\fs26 95, 20, 10
\f1\fs24 , their ranks are 
\f3\fs26 1, 2, 3
\f1\fs24 , and their hit rates are 
\f3\fs26 0.9, 0.5, 0.1
\f1\fs24 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Your Research, Scale, and Speed outcomes are multiplied together to form your gross PnL, after which the used part of your budget is deducted.\
Every decision you make reflects a real trade-off faced by modern market makers: capital is finite, competition is relentless, and edge alone is never enough. Good luck!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Submit your orders\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Choose the distribution of your budget by assigning percentages to the three pillars directly in the Manual Challenge Overview window and click the \'93Submit\'94 button. You can re-submit new distributions until the end of the trading round. When the round ends, the last submitted distribution will be locked in and processed.\
}